-(orchestra music playing)
-(Howard humming with music)
Oh, Judas H. Christ.
(humming)
(cash register dings)
MAN: Come on, make it quick. Let's go.
Get down.
MAN: Come on, man, let's go.
Come on, give me the money.
Don't got all day.
CASHIER: Just... Take it easy.
I'll give it to you.
MAN: Come on, make it quick. Let's go.
Come on!
-Police officer. Drop the weapon.
-(gasps)
Come on, man. Let's do it.
-(cocks gun)
-(gunshot)
HOWARD: He's only a boy.
-Call 911?
-Yeah.
Uh, call the police.
Eight, Detective LaRue and Washington
continue their
Bonnie's Boutique surveillance.
You guys coming up
on your first anniversary over there?
You guys got to reel
that one in pretty soon.
This attitude is why
they had to go back in
-on the president's nose, sarge.
-Excuse me, J.D.?
-When the president...
-Oh, brother.
had that thing on his nose.
See, they didn't do
a full thorough job the first time.
We're trying to document the full spectrum
of fencing activity over there.
Well, let's hope you get the full spectrum
documented pretty soon
so we can get the full spectrum
of suspects.
(laughter)
Last, of course,
this is the first of the month.
We got an expectation
of muggings and assaults
in the vicinity of the Michigan branch
of the post office.
To wit, a black male,
uh, six feet tall, 30-35.
Now, for the last two months this creep
has been beating up on old people,
robbing them of their pension checks.
All patrols have been alerted.
Detective Belker has been assigned.
Let's, uh, let's nail the bastard.
-Sarge, what about this PD business here?
-What?
ALL: Yeah!
Andrew, it's my understanding
that the council vote on whether or not
to restore funds to keep
the public defender office
up to its-- up to its, uh,
present compliment,
that-that vote comes up this afternoon.
I understand, sir,
but are they gonna go on strike
-if this money is not restored?
-(overlapping voices)
I'm not in the fortune telling business.
RENKO: Why should they be able
to go on strike?
Andrew, the PDs are gonna do
what they got to do,
and we're gonna do what we gotta do.
Would the captain like to get in a word?
Okay, let's roll. Let's roll.
(indistinct chatter)
What's up?
What in the hell are you doing, Stan?
What do you mean?
I just got off the phone with your doctor.
He said you were supposed to meet him
at the hospital this morning.
-Oh, that...
-Frank.
Howard just walked in on a 211.
He had to put the perp down.
-I'll be up in a minute, Henry.
-It may be a problem shoot.
In a minute, Henry.
It's all been taken care of, Captain.
He says he saw you twice over the weekend.
He says you need a bypass.
I, uh, I got a second opinion.
It, uh, was a false alarm.
Give me the name of the second doctor.
Look, you got to let me
handle this my own way.
-I can't do that, Stan.
-You got to.
I ain't leaving.
-Stan--
-Leave me alone.
Let me do my job.
WOMAN (on radio):
Dispatch. We have a 9-11.
Armed robbery in progress.
See Surplus Store,
corner People's Drive and 124th Street.
(sirens wailing)
(theme music playing)
(men shouting)
Joyce, it's over.
They finally did it. My pink slip.
-Luce, are you assigned?
-Mm.
Can-can you spend the day
in the stationhouse?
I guess we're going to be up to our necks
in perps with the PD thing, boss, huh?
(clears throat)
Would you keep an eye on Stan?
-Yeah.
-Uh, Norm.
Huh?
Can you afford to lose a day
on the Spearman investigation?
Yeah, I, uh, I'm going to see the wife
and then the bondsman again.
I want you on site follow up
of Howard's shooting.
Yeah, let me make one call.
The suits looking to jam
the lieutenant up, huh?
-Yeah, make your call.
-All right.
-Excuse me.
-Howard.
Oh, Frank.
You heard I was off and all?
-I heard.
-Captain.
IAD Officer Shipman, Lieutenant.
Officer.
I'd like to get your statement
as soon as possible.
All right. (sighs)
Uh, I expect, Howard,
you-you'll want to wash up a little.
I mean, take a few minutes
to collect your thoughts.
-Yes, I guess I should.
-Would you, uh, use this, Lieutenant?
It's for a urine sample.
Go in his freakin' hand.
Excuse me.
Take interrogation room A.
-Stan.
-Uh, I'm busy now, Captain.
Uh, Stan, we're gonna have to face this.
(sighs) Okay, fine,
but after we finish the shift, okay?
We'll take care of it then.
-I promise.
-We will talk about it then.
Yeah, okay, fine. But I am busy now.
I got a lot to do.
Hey, Mr. PD, can you get me out of here?
-It's my mother's birthday.
-Got the wrong guy, Rhonda.
-I'm fired.
-What do you mean fired?
I mean the city council just did to me
what you get done to you all day.
It's got to be saber rattling.
They can't really expect us to operate
at two-thirds our present strength.
You're kidding yourself, Joyce.
That's exactly what they expect.
And they're going to make it stick
unless we go out.
We still have other cards to play.
Oh, yeah? What hand are you looking at?
We're public employees, Danny.
It's illegal to strike.
Yeah, a strike is illegal.
And what the council is doing is a crime.
Uh, Ms. Davenport, Roland Lefferts.
-Interrogation B.
-Thanks.
See you at the strategy session.
Uh, it's going to be a strike meeting.
(whistling)
-Howard.
-Henry.
-You okay?
-Yeah.
I've discharged my weapon in war time
knowing that the results might be mortal.
I've given orders that I knew would
probably result in a perpetrator's death.
Uh... it's just that I have never, uh,
mano a mano as it were,
I've never actually shot someone
at close range.
(sighs)
Seeing life leave someone's eyes...
Something awesome about it, Henry. Uh...
-And horrible.
-I'm sorry.
Oh, there was no choice.
He brought his gun to bear.
There was no question
it was going to kill me.
Howard, you want to take
a little more time before you see IAD?
-Maybe talk to a counselor?
-No, I think I'm--
I'm pretty well in touch
with what happened.
I think I see it pretty clearly.
(chuckles)
They requested my urine.
I...
I think I'd be better able to oblige
without an audience.
HENRY: Right.
This is a no-win situation.
Yesterday, I took prune juice.
I never left my bathroom.
Today, I abstain and I haven't had
a single peep from that area.
He doesn't care if you're regular, Hilda.
You know what happened
to Tessie last month?
A hoodlum followed her home.
-From here?
-Stole her check.
What did he look like?
HILDA: A hoodlum,
how else is he gonna look?
I shouldn't have come.
-Oh, she's afraid.
-Sit down.
Nobody will touch you today.
You guarantee that?
He's a big strong man.
Don't even need a walker.
I'm curious.
What do you remember
about the man who robbed you?
HILDA: Tessie, sweetheart,
it doesn't do any good
to dwell on the past.
Do you mind? I want to know
what the gonif looked like.
Can you tell me, darling?
He covered his face with a stocking.
He grabbed my money, then he pushed me.
So I fell.
-Yoo-hoo.
-What?
-I'm forgetting your rudeness.
-I'm thrilled.
You new here in the neighborhood?
Relatively.
Widowed perchance?
(whimpers)
-(music playing on radio)
-(camera clicks)
J.D.: Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah, please.
Hurt me some more.
Hey, babe, save some of the film
for when she makes a buy.
-I brought extra rolls. Oh!
-(camera clicking continues)
Only new evidence we got
in the last two days
is what radio station she listens to.
I'm telling you, lover,
if they put this undercover
up on our review, we are in the soup.
Hey, you know, there's a chance
we could get her connection's connection.
Hey, hey, hey, here come her friends.
-Yeah.
-Hey. Same guys, too.
J.D.: Buttinskis.
Man, she bossa nova's to this tune.
-NATE: We got to make a move, J.D.
-J.D.: Would you take it easy?
The stuff they're selling
belongs to other people, J.D.
All right, okay.
Look, we'll do it this afternoon.
(sighs)
J.D.: Gonna have to interface
with the police, sweetheart.
-(camera clicking)
-And it's that mean Neal's fault.
For just a brief instance
I felt a flicker of pulse in his carotid.
Then he was gone.
I instructed the store owner's assistant
to call 911 and continued CPR
until the paramedics arrived.
I'm now going to begin
questioning you, Lieutenant.
I ask you to repeat
you've declined your right to counsel.
Uh, yes, correct.
Are you sure you want to do that?
My concerns about this incident,
Officer Shipman,
do not involve the propriety
of my professional conduct.
Lieutenant, by your own admission,
your load was not department authorized,
your piece was not department issue.
Well, I presume that that would call for
some sort, uh, of procedural reprimand.
Plus, the entry wound's near the back.
Plus, the kid's 14.
Unless the record is wrong.
Now you can presume
whatever you want to, Lieutenant,
but if it was me,
I'd have representation in here.
Look here, Officer,
this was a completely justified shoot.
(sighs)
Let's begin with your entrance
into the store.
-(indistinct chattering)
-STAN: I'll take it.
Come on.
She hasn't been sent
to arraignment yet, ma'am.
We're having some delays.
Then I suggest you go ahead
and you serve the birthday cake.
-The same to you.
-(receiver hangs up)
Counselor.
I thought you'd be
at the courthouse by now.
PD's meeting was pushed back half an hour.
I hear sentiments for a strike.
City council's doing everything they can
to make it happen.
They sent out pink slips this morning,
fired 18 PDs with the least seniority.
Last I checked, a strike
by public employees was illegal.
I don't need a lecture
on strike law, Frank.
I'm not lecturing.
I worry a strike would be
self-contradictory.
To protect our future clients' right
to effective counsel,
would be depriving our present clients
of representation.
Not to mention I'd hate for us
to become a one income family.
Especially on my income.
(chuckles)
Council meets at 4:00.
Maybe they'll restore the appropriation.
-How's Howard?
-He's still in with IAD.
Poor man. I saw him
just after he'd come in.
Didn't know what planet he was on.
-See you.
-Yeah.
Ballistics just came in
on Howard's shooting, Frank.
Perp's piece was defective.
Malfunctioning firing pin.
Howard couldn't have known that.
I've got two press inquiries
on the piece Howard used
asking if Barretta
is our department issue.
No statement, pending IAD findings.
I know. All I'm saying is
this isn't going to help.
-Lieutenant.
-Yeah, you got a witness list?
(indistinct chattering)
Hey, Lieutenant. How you doing?
MAN: My movement following
the officer's identifying himself,
is away from the officer's position?
He turned when his friend came in
and then he turned right back.
He was gonna shoot the officer.
You're sure that was his intent?
He just said so.
How many times you gonna ask him, huh?
Stay out of this, Lieutenant.
I got an investigation to run here.
Fellas, I gave my statement
three different times.
That's too freakin' bad, pal.
A cop's in the jackpot
'cause he stood up for you this morning.
I'm just saying I'd like
to open up again sometime.
You'll open up when I say you can.
All right, so what about it, huh?
I mean, I know you guys want another cop
for your mantelpiece,
but this guy's buddy
is still on the street,
-Go ahead.
-CLERK: I didn't see the other guy.
I-I can't help you with that.
How about you?
I got a look.
-I thought you didn't see him.
-I saw him.
Can you give me a description?
Don't mix into something unless you know
what you're doing, Ramon.
Hey, you take your own advice, Shlomo.
I can help.
I know where he hangs sometimes.
Good for you. Come on.
DANNY: And I want you
to understand one thing.
City council's deciding nothing
at four o'clock.
They already made their move this morning.
Either you or a person
on either side of you was fired today.
Now I want to know
why are we waiting to strike?
-(overlapping chatter)
-Thanks, Danny.
-Vote.
-Joyce.
Uh, what did they say
about the possibility
of restoring these positions
at the beginning of the new fiscal year?
They wouldn't even talk about it.
Said they wouldn't consider it.
-MAN: Right.
-MAN 2: It was worse than before, Joyce.
They feel like they've got the upper hand.
They're just not willing to give an inch.
I still wonder if there isn't a way
short of striking
-that we can dramatize or seriousness.
-(overlapping chatter)
Well, I say the time
for gestures is over with.
-(overlapping chatter)
-MAN: We have to strike.
(♪ "Party All the Time"
by Eddie Murphy playing)
(humming)
Eighty-seven FM, it's my favorite station.
-Hey, what do you think?
-Really and truly?
-You'd look better in red.
-You know, it's amazing.
Same size and everything.
You and my girlfriend,
you've got a remarkable resemblance.
-The two of you could be related.
-No.
-No what?
-No, I won't try it on.
Not even for five bucks?
Ten. Hey, it's all I got.
You're boring me.
I got cameras.
You need to get hit by a truck?
I don't want to try anything on,
and I'm not interested in a photo session.
Hey, cameras to sell.
Kraut, high quality, slightly warm.
-No kidding.
-Hey, did she bite?
-We're on for three o'clock.
(chuckles) I was beginning to think
I'd be on this till retirement.
-Hey, what's wrong, man?
-Poor kid.
Poor kid?
Hey, J.D., the chick's
been fencing stuff for a week now.
People can be victims
of their environments, Neal.
Now, I just think maybe I had her wrong.
Maybe I can help with her plea bargain.
(scoffs)
MAN: Mr. Andrews, PD's taking--
Oh, saints be praised.
Ms. Davenport, our case
is third up on the docket.
Any idea when it's gonna be called?
I thought I was through
waiting around like this
when I got mustered out of the service.
-You aren't.
-Ma'am?
I wouldn't hold my breath waiting
for your case to be called, gentlemen.
REPORTER: Another question, Mr. Santana.
You know, there are moments, Robert,
when I like that woman
better than other moments.
At ease, Private.
Good of you to join us, Ms. Davenport.
Sorry, Your Honor.
BAILIFF: Docket B62578.
People vs. Pedro Rodriguez.
Possession of two ounces of a controlled
substance, to wit, marijuana.
People waive reading of the complaint.
-Defense request a reading, Your Honor.
-Excuse me?
Defense requests reading of the complaint,
Your Honor, and of the rights.
Counsel approach.
Cut it out, Joycie.
Defense intends to avail itself
of full entitlements, Your Honor.
Defense is sending a message
to the city council.
This court is not a message service.
Your Honor, due process--
I have a full docket today, Ms. Davenport.
I intend to get through it.
Then may we proceed, Your Honor?
-Go ahead.
-MAN: In the crime
of possession of marijuana
in violation of health and safety codes...
So what are your thoughts
about remarriage?
You think it compliments
the original spouse?
No. Yes.
No that my Rueben
was such a day at the beach.
TESSIE: Heading inside
just got their checks.
We should be in the next batch.
Excuse me.
-Where are you going?
-I'm walking off a cramp.
Moody.
BOBBY: Get in the car, Mick.
-What?
-Got to take you down to court, Mick.
-No, it's a mistake.
-No. You got a case on that.
No, no. That's a two-ounce marijuana bust.
They're gonna plead that.
Ain't going to be
no plea bargain today, pal.
PD's gumming up the whole thing, Mick.
There are people being robbed here.
I'm established on an undercover here.
Mick, it's the DA's order.
I want a presence.
If I can't pop this guy,
I want him discouraged.
-(sighs)
-Okay. I'll stay.
I'll be the deterrent.
(car door closes)
The newcomer's been arrested?
No, ma'am, the old man's
just being dropped off somewhere.
Oh, and I was on a roll.
Coming through. Nice and easy, pops.
-I want a lawyer.
-Yeah? Take a number.
Get him in the back.
Keep it down.
Keep him up here a while.
They're backing up in the cells.
-Hey! Hey!
-(shouting)
(clamoring)
Hey, what is this?
-That's enough!
-Come here.
You pig! I'll kill you!
Keep 'em separated.
You stepped on my foot, man!
-Stan, what's the matter?
-Not a word.
What's going on?
Well, uh, we still haven't been able
to ship out all the morning arraignments.
I guess the PDs are really
slowing up the court.
-Can we use garden level?
-We had a violent down there.
Get him over to County Medical
for evaluation.
Anything from Buntz?
Uh, still looking
for the dead perp's accomplice.
Frank.
My, uh, people got that wrong,
didn't they?
You refused to attend the press briefing.
I said Lieutenant Goldblume would attend.
We didn't ask for Lieutenant Goldblume.
Lieutenant Goldblume
is community relations officer.
That's the only part of Hunter's case
that's proper to discuss.
-Cut the crap, Frank.
-You cut the crap.
Hunter isn't even finished with IAD yet.
I'm not gonna feed him to the wolves.
This is a 14-year-old Black kid.
-No piece.
-His weapon didn't work.
-No priors and he was shot in the back.
-In the side.
With a howitzer and unapproved load
and you don't think
we owe a public accounting?
I think we owe it when the facts are in.
Until then, we owe exactly what
Lieutenant Goldblume is trained to offer.
Acknowledgement of community sentiment
and an assurance of a fair inquiry.
Let me tell you something, Frank.
And you better believe it.
Your man's butt is in the wringer.
You understand that?
I want that material on Hunter fast.
MAN: Yes, Inspector.
Can we speak in your office, Captain?
I've received Lieutenant Hunter's
statement and conducted my interview.
Lieutenant Hunter now has a right
to amend his statement,
repent an explanation
before I submit my findings.
Are you suggesting that's what he do?
(sighs) If the lieutenant
would have decided
he hadn't been fully cognizant
of what he was saying,
we would then ask
to submit an explanation.
Explain in what regard?
I'll turn in my report at 6:00 p.m.
-Lieutenant.
-Officer.
-Captain.
-Howard.
How do you feel?
Well, I'm a little drained.
That gentleman's pretty thorough.
Though I must say I didn't find some
of his questions completely pertinent.
Uh... he wouldn't let up
about my load or my weapon
or did I consider myself on duty.
Judas, Frank, that is hardly
the heart of what happened.
You could be at risk here.
Oh, Frank, that death
is an instance for regret,
but it certainly wasn't culpable.
I want you to go home, get an hour's rest,
and then sit down and write
as self-serving a statement
-as you're capable of.
-What are you talking about?
For one thing, I want you to say
you considered yourself off duty.
(laughs) Police officer is never--
Damn it, Howard, say you were off duty.
That'll take some of the curse off
the ammunition you used
and the unauthorized piece.
I think I'm finally getting the gist.
I don't think you have civil
or criminal liability,
but you could lose your badge.
(groans) This department.
Before the enormity of the sphinx
they would discuss the desert heat.
Now, I have something
I have to attend to, Frank.
And then I will try to draft
the appropriate--
Do it, Howard.
Thanks for your concern.
JOYCE: Was there something about
the location of this particular Dumpster
that caught your attention, Detective?
We got part four stalled pretty good.
Schwartzman's driving them nuts
in part two.
He's refusing to plea
to drunk and disorderly.
Where were you situated, Detective,
when you observed my client
ridding himself of the evidence?
I already said that, inside the Dumpster.
I mean where inside the Dumpster?
In the corner.
Besides yourself and the allegedly
deposited evidence,
was there anything else inside?
Yes, there was. Rotting food.
Um, rotting green vegetables.
Rotting broccoli? Rotting asparagus?
Rotting Brussels sprout?
Uh, Ms. Davenport, other than
to the city council vote at four o'clock,
is this line of questioning
leading anywhere at all?
JOYCE: Your Honor, I'm trying
-to lay a foundation for...
-(growling)
-JOYCE: I am trying to lay a foundation--
-I need a recess.
(sighs) All right, five minutes.
Since we're not accomplishing
anything anyway.
And, um, when we resume,
unless defense counsel
can demonstrate the relevance
of this line of questioning's
hyper specificity,
I'll ask her to find a different way
to trivialize and obstruct
these proceedings.
That's hardly my intention.
I think it's exactly your intention.
You're supposed to be
watching the old people.
-We got called in our--
-Mick, our case got transferred--
-So there's nobody out on my stakeout?
-We got all--
-Is that you're saying?
-We had no choice.
Two ounces of marijuana,
you couldn't waive prosecution, right?
It's my third day on the job, Detective.
No one authorized me to null it.
Excuse me. Could I talk to you
for a second, please?
-Excuse us.
-What is it, Detective?
It is a mail delivery of checks
for old people who might get robbed.
I am asking you, please,
play your games with someone else.
They're hardly games.
Representation of 32,000
indigent defendants
every year in this city is easily worth
an extra two hours of your time and mine.
I have to get out of here.
Talk to the city council.
They're the ones that put
both of us in this position.
(growls)
Since he is ever at the ready,
for the truly prepared officer
there is no such thing
as a surprise inspection.
Those boots need a shine, Kregle.
(sighs) It is regrettable to be losing
the battle of the waistline, Mackler.
But unforgiveable to let your posture
concede defeat.
(chuckles)
Gibson? Disassemble that weapon.
Step back, Mackler.
Ten seconds.
That's the low range of acceptable.
(snickers)
As you were, Gibson.
Sullivan.
Reassemble that weapon.
The bolt, Sullivan.
You should be looking for the bolt.
(gun rattling)
Reassembled, sir.
Well done, Sullivan.
Bit hesitant at the beginning.
As you were.
At ease, gentlemen.
All in all, it was not unsatisfactory.
Where appropriate... (clears throat)
you will receive follow up notations.
Detail attention.
At a double time, dismissed.
You may not recall, Frank,
I told you yesterday
that I was going to spring
a surprise inspection.
I think it's important to be consistent.
I think it's important to be thorough.
I think it's important to keep your word.
Howard, go home.
(sighs)
(lively music playing)
-That's it, babe. It's history.
-Get in the car.
Oh, man, are we going to get
our ashes hauled for waiting on this one.
Shut up.
I don't believe this.
Maybe it was a dream.
The dream lives.
Don't you want to continue your farcical
line of questioning, Ms. Davenport?
Just a moment, Your Honor.
JUDGE:
Come on, come on. Don't you get it?
Mr. Santana is telling you
the city council voted no.
Feeling pretty chipper,
are we, Mr. Santana?
Looking forward to the strike?
Looking forward to doing
what has to be done, Your Honor.
Can I Get out of here?
Defense requests an adjournment,
Your Honor.
On what grounds?
Personal emergency.
-What emergency?
-I'm feeling unwell.
In what way? Be more specific.
May it please the court,
section 1053.2 of the civil code states
that if after commencement of a hearing
of a criminal action
or proceeding in any court,
the attorney for the defense
or the prosecution,
for reasons of sudden illness
or personal emergency
be unable to proceed,
the presiding judge
shall grant an adjournment.
You had that memorized?
I request action on my motion, Your Honor.
Judge.
I'm sorry you've been made
a casualty, Detective,
but you see, Ms. Davenport's
four and one half hours
of prima donna posturing
have caused problems for a lot of us.
I think not least for her client.
You're going to enjoy staying
in the hoosegow
till your new counsel is appointed,
Mr. Rodriguez.
Where are you going, Ms. Davenport?
You're not conducting
court business any longer.
But I make that determination.
Turn around, Joycie,
or I'm going to hit you with contempt.
You're the one who's behavior
is contemptable.
Cited for contempt!
You bastard.
Strike really could be
rough on you, huh, Joyce.
You may have to dip into the trust fund.
Maybe start a new firm for dilatants.
(crowd gasps)
(chuckles)
Drop contempt.
Cite her for battery. Bailiff.
-(TV playing in distance)
-(baby crying)
Yeah?
-James Wingate?
-Yeah.
Police Lieutenant Howard Hunter.
Hey, I'm clean, man. I'm totally clean.
You can go ask my parole officer.
-I'm here about your brother.
-I didn't run with Amos.
I didn't have nothing to do with that.
I'm the police officer
that shot your brother, James.
May I come in?
-Amos is dead?
-Yes.
Try to shoot you?
-He would have, yes.
-Uh-huh.
I want to pledge to you, James,
that for the rest of my life,
I will try to be worthy
of the deed that I did today.
Say what?
Before the White man came,
the inhabitants of this continent
would bathe their young warriors
in the blood of their first kill.
That was to teach them
that they must ever after
with their conduct honor--
Would you get your ever after out of here?
My taking your brother's life
was necessary, James,
-but it was not done lightly--
-You get out!
-I had hoped that it might be of some--
-Fifty bucks.
-Excuse me?
-You want me to trick
so you can feel better,
than you give me 50 dollars.
(mutters) I, uh--
I-I don't think
you understand my intentions.
You give it up, baby, or get out.
You gonna have to pay
to keep your rap going in here.
Come in here wanting me
to listen to you talk
so you can feel better.
I'm a busy man.
I ain't got time to listen to you talk
about how you killed my brother.
Yeah, get out.
Next time you come, you bring paper.
You got the dime, then I got the time.
I am sorry for your loss.
(indistinct chatter)
-(horn honks)
-No good?
One of those guys says
he copped here around noon.
-Maybe he'll come back.
-He's dead.
What do you mean?
Not the guy we're looking for,
the lieutenant.
The one that helped you out this morning.
(scoffs)
Cop puts a perp down,
he better be wearing a tie
and clean underpants.
Downtown's always saying,
"Oh, yeah. We're behind you."
Then all of a sudden, "Look at this.
You forgot to cross this T,
this, uh, I here ain't dotted.
Gotta have your badge."
-MAN: Hey!
-There.
-You sure that's him?
-I'm sure.
Come on, cop, you piece of garbage.
What are you waiting for?
I want to catch him dirty.
Help the lieutenant out more.
The scum wad made me. Lie down.
Police! Come on, do something wrong!
Come on!
Man, they're up, man. It's all over.
House in the armory
till private attorneys can be hired.
All intake interviews
will be conducted there.
Oh, try to note in their file folders,
all those close
to the 72-hour detention limit.
Right, Captain. In terms of new arrests--
All but class one
get settled in the street.
(chuckles) It's gonna be no good.
Before he gets around
it'll be Disneyland out there.
Uh... Stan.
Hey, hi, Stosh.
-Uh... Hi, Guy.
-Hey, Stosh,
-look what you're leaving me with here.
-Yeah.
Captain, I'm going to tell you this
without any BS or anything else.
Now, I haven't had a twinge
or anything like it
since three-- since before
three o'clock this afternoon.
Stan, you're not the first cop
who tried to die on the beat.
I've watched you drink 15 cups of coffee
and lift cartons and wade into fights.
I'm not gonna let you do it that way.
This where I get the lecture on how
I still got a lot to live for, Captain?
No lecture. But if you try to come in
for work tomorrow,
I'm going to have you retired
for physical impairment.
Listen up, everybody.
Uh, li-listen up.
There's no way to say this but to say it.
I'm not gonna be here anymore.
It's not that I don't wanna be, I...
It's just that my body won't permit.
I'm going in for surgery.
I hope to see you all afterwards.
No farewells.
It's been a privilege.
Everybody get back to work.
-Ms. Davenport on 2-7, Captain.
-Thank you.
HENRY: Smeltzer, 50. Heart of gold.
Jacobs, you want a receipt for that?
She's good for it, I promise.
I got you down.
-NORMAN: Gerald Smith, book him.
-Lieutenant.
Can I talk to you a moment?
Unless it's a class A felony,
we're giving the perp some rhythm.
Book him.
Norm, how much dough can you spare?
Captain's wife got arrested.
You sure he wants to get her out, huh?
Just how the public defender strike
will affect the city is uncertain.
But experts are predicting
long court delays
and much confusion
throughout the legal system.
I swear, Robert, I would
throw their striking heinies in jail.
-(news report on TV continues)
-No room.
Bunch of rich babies.
Renko, they make less than we do.
Still again, they swore a solemn oath
which they have now broke.
I seem to remember a whole bunch of cops
getting the flu bug all at the same time
a couple years ago, Renko.
I just don't like people who wear suits.
(laughs)
At least we picked
a good time to screw up.
All this heat coming down
'cause of the PDs going out.
Maybe nobody will notice
that we blew the undercover.
Hey, she really got to you, didn't she?
I swear to you, Neal,
I felt like it was kismet.
Like something
that didn't have anything to do
with ordinary rules or sense.
Like she just materialized
in that store for me
to see her through my camera.
-Man, I don't believe this.
-What?
You call me tomorrow, okay? Okay?
You got the guy.
Sorry, sweetheart, I'm a cop.
You're busted.
Now, if you got to piece,
just slide it under.
-You're a cop?
-WOMAN: I'm a cop.
On a buy sting from Division.
Fence undercover from the Hill.
-Detective J.D. LaRue.
-Officer Tina Russo.
(chuckles) Hi. I...
meet all my dates in here.
So, you, uh, bought my
sleazeball act this afternoon?
Completely.
Where's the PD's meeting?
Danny Santana's apartment.
At least Wachtel let me make bail.
I can't believe he'll pursue the charge.
His own conduct was too unprofessional.
(sobs) I knew he was trying to goad me,
make it ad hominem,
but I just couldn't stop myself
from reacting.
When, uh, Danny and the others
came into the court room
and I knew we were going to strike...
I tried to think of the clients
I hadn't defended yet.
The ones who are going to get the quality
of representation they deserve
because of what we were going to do.
(sighs)
But all I could see was my client's eyes,
and I kept trying to tell myself
I wasn't betraying his trust.
-(indistinct chatter)
-(radio chatter)
Rob assault, Captain. Victim just died.
-White male, looked like his mid-70s.
-FRANK: Thank you.
I told her, let me go.
-She had to play games.
-FRANK: That's enough, Mick.
Maybe it wouldn't have happened, Captain.
FRANK: No proof this was connected
with your undercover.
Maybe I could have stopped it.
You take the car.
I'm going to have to stay here a while.
Warren, why would Howard
try to intimidate him?
His brother had nothing to do
with the case.
He went there because he was trying
to explain what happened.
(knocking on door)
Well, he says he's working on it.
I don't know if he's going to submit one.
Look, Warren, I don't want to lose my cop.
I mean, I hope any personal animosity
between us will--
Okay. Before anyone else, huh?
Thank you.
Stan.
Yeah, thanks.
Is-is that about the lieutenant?
Uh, sorry to bother you, Captain.
I just, uh, felt I needed
somebody to talk to.
-You feel all right?
-Oh, yeah.
Funny thing is, I don't feel so bad.
Except, you know, when it grabs me.
You got to have it taken care of, Stan.
I'm going to.
I used to be so afraid of hospitals.
Before my wife Helen got sick,
I'd never go inside.
Now you know what I'm scared of, Captain?
I'm scared I'm going to live.
I'm scared I'm gonna go in,
they're going to operate,
I'm gonna live, and I'm gonna
sit by myself at that apartment.
I'll be an old man sitting by myself.
-That's not going to happen, Stan.
-God, I hate crying.
You have friends. Everybody cares for you.
Captain, can I stay?
Can I keep on working? Please.
Sorry.
-Didn't mean to put you in a position.
-No, that's all right.
Act like a man for a while.
Wind up a little boy again.
Don't say that. You're still a man.
Hmm. It's hard to get things
through a Polish noggin.
-Where's Ms. Davenport?
-At a PD's meeting.
That strike goes on any length of time,
that's going to be hell on us, Captain.
Stan. You'll never need
an excuse to come here.
-No fun, are they?
-What's that?
Empty places.
-Good night.
-Good night, Stan.
(closing theme playing)